 
Patterns 
Includes: Design Aesthetics · Scroll & Animation · Layouts · Navigation · Typography & Color · UI 
AI  
Everything   a beginner   needs  to know  to prompt  AI  tools like Stitch, Framer , or W ebflow  
Guide 
The Vibe Coder's Web Design 
----------------Page (0) Break----------------
 
cards fade in on scroll (animation).' That level of detail gets you great results. 
'Build a glassmorphism hero section (aesthetic) with a centered two-column layout (layout) where the 
TIP  W hen prompting an AI tool, always combine 3 things: Aesthetic + Layout + Animation. Example: 
 
Example Sites   Real websites that use this style so you can see it in action 
AI Prompt     A copy-paste prompt you can give to Stitch, Framer AI, or any AI builder 
How it works   The visual mechanism — what makes it look or behave that way 
What it is     A plain-English explanation of the concept 
 
Each entry in this guide follows the same format: 
 
to tell the AI exactly what you want. 
prompting AI tools. You don't need to write code by hand. W hat you DO need is the vocabulary 
This guide is your cheat sheet for web design — written for vibe coders who build websites by 
How to Use This Guide 
----------------Page (1) Break----------------
 
(glassmorphism.com)
 
→ Glassmorphism.com — Interactive CSS generator to understand the effect visually  
→ Apple iCloud.com — Subtle glass panels in login UI — very refined glassmorphism  (icloud.com)   
(dribbble.com/tags/glassmorphism)
 
→ Halo Lab on Dribbble — Classic glassmorphism UI kit with frosted cards and vivid gradients  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
and a subtle drop shadow. Text should be white. Add a glass-style navbar at the top." 
background: rgba(255,255,255,0.15), a backdrop-filter blur of 12px, a white border at 30% opacity, 
to #764ba2). Create 3 feature cards that look like frosted glass panels — each card should have 
"Build a glassmorphism SaaS landing page. Use a vivid purple-to-blue gradient background (#667eea 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
background 
Best       Purple/blue/pink gradients, abstract blobs, or colorful photos 
nt 
Semi-transpare Partially see-through — like looking through tinted glass 
rgba()       Color with transparency — the 4th value (alpha) controls how see-through it is 
backdrop-filter  CSS property that blurs the content behind an element 
 
panels — otherwise there's nothing to blur. 
completes the glass look. You always need a colorful, vibrant background behind the glass 
is a low value like 0.15 making it partially transparent. A thin white border at low opacity 
behind the element, and a background-color set to rgba() (red, green, blue, alpha) where alpha 
The magic happens with two CSS properties: backdrop-filter:blur() which blurs everything 
How it works 
lets some of the background bleed through while remaining readable. 
subtle border. Imagine a glass panel sitting in front of a colorful, blurry background. The panel 
Glassmorphism makes UI elements look like frosted glass — semi-transparent, blurred, with a 
What it is 
1.1 Glassmorphism 
 
an AI. 
reacting to its aesthetic. Understanding these styles lets you describe exactly what you want to 
W hen you look at a website and think 'that looks futuristic' or 'that feels premium', you're 
Design aesthetics are the visual language of a website — the overall 'vibe' and personality. 
1. Design Aesthetics 
----------------Page (2) Break----------------
1.3 Brutalism 
 
(ui8.net/tags/neumorphism)
 
→ UI8 Soft UI Kits — Downloadable neumorphism design kits showing real app screens  
(dribbble.com/tags/neumorphism)
 
→ Dribbble — Neumorphism UI — Hundreds of beautiful Neumorphism UI examples for reference  
learn it.  (neumorphism.io)    
→ Neumorphism.io — CSS generator — drag the sliders and watch the effect build. Best way to 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
#ffffff. Include a volume slider and track progress bar in the same neumorphic style." 
#ffffff. Add pressed (active) state with inset shadows: inset 4px 4px 8px #b8bec7, inset -4px -4px 8px 
play/pause buttons using dual box-shadows: box-shadow: 6px 6px 12px #b8bec7, -6px -6px 12px 
"Create a neumorphism music player dashboard on a #e0e5ec background. Build raised circular 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
low — don't use it for critical text or important CTAs. 
and dashboard widgets. It struggles with accessibility on bright screens because the contrast is very 
TIP  Neumorphism looks best at low contrast. It's ideal for dark mode music players, control panels, 
 
Color rule     Background color and element color MUST match exactly 
Convex      Pushed outward — feels like a raised element (outer shadow) 
Concave      Pressed inward — feels like a pressed button (inner shadow) 
comma 
box-shadow    CSS property — you can apply TW O shadows to one element separated by a 
 
#e0e5ec), the element appears to grow organically from the surface rather than sit on top of it. 
W OULD hit. Because both the background and the element are the exact same color (like 
simulates where light would NOT hit a raised surface. The light shadow simulates where light 
The trick is all in box-shadow. You apply two shadows simultaneously. The dark shadow 
How it works 
the top-left. 
pair of shadows: one dark shadow from the bottom-right and one light (near-white) shadow from 
— the background and the element share an identical color. W hat creates the 3D illusion is a 
physically pushed out of or pressed into the background surface. Everything is the SAME color 
Neumorphism (new + skeuomorphism) creates buttons and cards that look like they are 
What it is 
1.2 Neumorphism (Soft UI) 
----------------Page (3) Break----------------
creates visual rhythm and breathing room. 
monochromatic or near-monochromatic color palette, and zero decoration. The whitespace itself 
content is removed. W hat remains is: generous white (or off-white) space, a single typeface, a 
Minimalism is the philosophy that content is the design. Everything that doesn't serve the 
What it is 
1.4 Minimalism 
 
(hype4.academy)
 
→ Hype4.academy — W eb design learning platform with a slightly brutalist aesthetic  
templates to study  (figma.com/community)     
→ Figma — Community Brutalism UI — Search 'brutalism' in Figma Community for ready-made 
borders  (gumroad.com)    
→ Gumroad.com — The most famous modern brutalist website — product selling platform with thick 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
monospace font for body text. No gradients, no drop shadows, no border-radius anywhere." 
sections. Add slight rotation (transform: rotate(-1deg) to -2deg) on some image cards. Use a 
at 80px, font-weight 900). Accent color is yellow (#FFE600) used for hover states and highlighted 
(3px solid #000) on every card and section. Typography should be black and oversized (hero headline 
"Build a brutalist portfolio website with a pure white #FFFFFF background. Use bold black borders 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Primary colors  Pure red, yellow, blue, black, white — no pastels or muted tones 
border-radius 
No        Sharp corners only — no rounded shapes anywhere 
Monospace font  Fixed-width font like Courier that looks like a typewriter 
() 
transform:rotate Tilts elements by a few degrees — a hallmark brutalism detail 
 
HTML in Notepad in 1998. Paradoxically, it takes skill to do brutalism W ELL. 
that are slightly rotated with CSS transform:rotate, and a general sense that someone typed the 
everything, backgrounds of pure yellow (#FFE600) or pure white, text in bold black, elements 
No rounded corners. No gradients. No subtle shadows. Instead: solid 2-4px black borders on 
How it works 
layouts. It's the punk rock of web design. 
primary colors (red, yellow, black), system fonts like monospace, and asymmetric or tilted 
polished corporate design of most tech companies and embraces thick black borders, stark 
Brutalist web design is intentionally raw, ugly-on-purpose, and anti-establishment. It rejects the 
What it is 
----------------Page (4) Break----------------
with large typography and a stat. The variety in size AND color is what makes it feel premium. 
some light (#F5F5F5), some with gradient backgrounds, some with product screenshots, some 
rows, some are small and square. Cards have different visual treatments: some dark (#111), 
CSS Grid is the technical foundation. Some cards span 2 columns, others are tall and span 2 
How it works 
visual collage. 
product landing pages. Think of it as a mosaic of cards, each with its own design, creating a 
Apple's Mac product pages, it's now one of the most popular design trends for SaaS and 
varied-size compartments, each showing a different feature or piece of content. Popularized by 
A bento grid is a layout (and aesthetic) inspired by a Japanese bento box — a grid of 
What it is 
1.5 Bento Grid 
 
→ Typewolf.com — Typography-focused minimal design inspiration, all real websites  (typewolf.com)   
(linear.app)
 
→ Linear.app — Project management tool — one of the cleanest, most minimal SaaS designs  
(awwwards.com/websites/minimal)
 
→ Awwwards — Minimalist Category — Award-winning minimal websites — filter by 'minimalism'  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
vertical). Image grid with generous white space between photos. Let the whitespace be the design." 
captions. No icons, no decorative elements, no gradients. Large padding on all sections (80px 
headline at 72px weight 300, section titles at 32px. Color palette: near-black #111 for text, #888 for 
background. Typography only: a single font family (Cormorant Garamond or Playfair Display), hero 
"Design a minimalist photography portfolio homepage. Use #FAFAF9 (warm off-white) as the 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
themselves 
Negative space  The empty areas around and between objects — as important as the objects 
Monochromatic  Using one color at different shades — like all blacks, grays, and whites 
hierarchy 
Typographic   Using size, weight, and spacing alone to show what's important 
Whitespace    Empty space used intentionally as a design element — not wasted space 
 
purpose. 
typographic hierarchy. No icons, no illustrations, no gradients — unless they serve a specific 
(light, regular, bold), near-black text on near-white background, and content arranged with clear 
without losing meaning?' Large padding and margins, a single font used at multiple weights 
Think of minimalism as removal. You start with a design and keep asking 'can this be removed 
How it works 
----------------Page (5) Break----------------
(#8B5CF6) — is used sparingly for CTAs, icons, and highlights. Typography is pure white or 
A single accent color — often electric blue (#0066FF), amber (#F59E0B), or soft purple 
harsh. Cards and sections use slightly lighter darks (#111111, #1A1A2E) to create subtle depth. 
Background is near-black (#0A0A0A or #0D0D1A), NOT pure black (#000000) which can feel 
How it works 
product screenshots pop dramatically. 
dark mode — it's a deliberate aesthetic choice that uses darkness to make accent colors and 
atmosphere. Think of a high-end watch brand website or a premium SaaS product. It's not just 
Dark luxury uses deep charcoal or near-black backgrounds to create a premium, sophisticated 
What it is 
1.6 Dark Mode / Dark Luxury 
 
(dribbble.com/tags/bento)
 
→ Dribbble — Bento Grid UI — Search 'bento grid' for hundreds of design references  
→ Framer.com — W ebsite builder with a beautiful bento grid on their homepage  (framer .com)  
→ Linear.app homepage — Dark bento-style feature grid for a SaaS product  (linear.app)  
sizes and treatments  (apple.com/mac)    
→ Apple Mac product page — The gold standard of bento grids — study how Apple varies card 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
(transform: scale(1.02))." 
accent cards use #1A1A2E. Round all cards with 16px border-radius. Add hover scale effect 
faster'), and 4 smaller cards each highlighting one feature. Dark cards use #111111 background, light 
columns showing a product screenshot, one tall card spanning 2 rows with a bold stat (like '10x 
Grid with 3 columns and auto rows. Include 6 cards of varying sizes: one large card spanning 2 
"Build a bento grid feature section on a #0A0A0A (near-black) background. Create a responsive CSS 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
large cards should hold your most impressive content. 
you want 1-2 large featured cards (span 2 columns or 2 rows) and 3-4 smaller supporting cards. The 
TIP  The key to a great bento grid is the mix of big and small. Don't make all cards the same size — 
 
Apple-style    Usually on a black or very dark gray page background for max contrast 
treatments 
Varied      Each card has its own background — dark, light, gradient, or image 
grid-row: span 2  Makes a card take up 2 rows — creates a tall featured card 
span 2 
grid-column:   Makes a card take up 2 columns of the grid instead of 1 
 
----------------Page (6) Break----------------
or Black Han Sans for headings. Add CSS sparkle/star decorations (small ✦ symbols) scattered on 
electric cyan #00E5FF, and neon lime #AAFF00 as accents. Use a bold display font like Bebas Neue 
"Create a Y2K-inspired portfolio website on a #0A0A0A background. Color palette: hot pink #FF1493, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Chrome/metallic text effects. 
Bright gradients that look unafraid. Sometimes actual animated GIF-style elements. 
technological or retro feel. Star/sparkle decorations scattered across the page. Bold italic type. 
as main colors, often on a black or very dark background. Pixel or display fonts with a 
Key visual ingredients: hot pink (#FF00FF) and cyan (#00FFFF) or bright lime green (#AAFF00) 
How it works 
hottest aesthetics right now. 
before everyone agreed on 'good taste'. Ironically, Gen Z designers have made this one of the 
pixel art, bold typography, starfield backgrounds, and the visual energy of early web design 
Retro and Y2K design draws nostalgia from the 90s and early 2000s internet — neon gradients, 
What it is 
1.7 Retro / Y2K 
 
→ Stripe.com — Premium dark sections mixed with light sections — a masterclass  (stripe.com)   
→ Raycast.com — Mac productivity app with stunning dark luxury aesthetic  (raycast.com)   
(vercel.com)
 
→ Vercel.com — Near-perfect dark luxury SaaS design — study every detail of their homepage  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
30px rgba(0,102,255,0.4))." 
(Inter or Satoshi). CTA button: #0066FF with white text and a subtle glow effect (box-shadow: 0 0 
hero: a soft purple glow at 20% opacity centered behind the hero text. Clean sans-serif typography 
background with a 1px border at rgba(255,255,255,0.08). Add a very subtle radial gradient in the 
#F1F1EE. Accent color: electric blue #0066FF for buttons and highlighted text. Cards use #111827 
"Build a dark luxury SaaS landing page. Background: #0D0D1A (deep dark blue-black). Primary text: 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Subtle gradient  A very faint radial gradient in the background gives depth without being garish 
Border opacity  Very low opacity borders like rgba(255,255,255,0.08) for subtle separation 
Accent color    One bright color used ONLY for important elements — CTAs, icons, highlights 
Near-black     #0A0A0A or #0D0D1A — not pure black, which can feel harsh on screens 
 
softly. 
near-white (#F1F1EE). Thin borders at low opacity (rgba(255,255,255,0.08)) separate sections 
----------------Page (7) Break----------------
Background is a soft light blue-gray." 
on buttons: transform: translateY(4px) with reduced shadow to simulate physical pressing. 
#FF6B6B, mint #4ECDC4. All elements have border-radius: 20px minimum. Add pressed animation 
rgba(108,99,255,0.35) for a raised purple button. Use candy colors: soft purple #6C63FF, coral 
cards and buttons using multi-layer box-shadows: box-shadow: 0 8px 0 #4B44CC, 0 14px 20px 
"Design a claymorphism task management app UI on a soft #F0F4FF background. Create 3D-looking 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
border-radius 
High       24-32px corners — very rounded, almost pill-shaped for small elements 
Press state    On click, bottom shadow disappears, element moves down by the shadow height 
Candy colors   Bright but slightly soft colors — purple, coral, mint, sky blue 
shadow 
Multi-layer    Two or three box-shadows at once: a hard bottom one for depth, soft ambient glow 
 
like it's being physically pressed down. 
(24px+) on everything. W hen the button is clicked, the bottom shadow shrinks, making it feel 
element. Candy colors (soft pastels or vivid saturated colors) are typical. High border-radius 
element's color (simulating the underside), and a larger soft glow shadow around the whole 
The 3D effect is created with multiple box-shadows: a bottom shadow in a darker version of the 
How it works 
corporate. 
general consumers, productivity tools, and any product that wants to feel fun rather than 
style creates a playful, friendly, and approachable feel, making it popular for apps targeting 
made of clay or rubber. Buttons and cards appear to have physical volume and weight. This 
Claymorphism makes UI elements look inflated, puffy, and three-dimensional — like they're 
What it is 
1.8 Claymorphism / 3D UI 
 
conventional design  (awwwards.com)     
→ Awwwards — Experimental category — Find retro and experimental sites that push beyond 
(bratgirlstudio.com)
 
→ Brat Girl Studio — Real brand that fully commits to bright Y2K colors and energy  
(dribbble.com/tags/y2k)
 
→ Y2K Aesthetic Community on Dribbble — Search 'Y2K web design' for hundreds of references  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
bright gradient dividers. Navigation links in bold uppercase with a neon hover underline effect." 
the page. Hero headline in chrome metallic gradient text (silver to white). Sections separated by 
----------------Page (8) Break----------------
 
(notion.so)
 
→ Notion.so — Subtle 3D elements in their marketing — good example of refined claymorphism  
(dribbble.com/tags/claymorphism)
 
→ Dribbble — Claymorphism — Search 'clay UI' or 'claymorphism' for reference designs  
examples  (cuberto.com)   
→ Cuberto Agency — 3D UI Kits — Premium 3D and claymorphism UI kits with real app screen 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
----------------Page (9) Break----------------
down and a section enters the visible area of the screen (the 'viewport'), that element animates 
Elements are hidden (invisible and/or off-position) when the page loads. As the user scrolls 
What it is 
2.2 Scroll-Triggered Animations 
 
(awwwards.com/websites/parallax)
 
→ Awwwards — Parallax Sites — Award-winning websites using advanced parallax effects  
understanding the mechanics  (university .webflow  .com)  
→ Webflow University — Parallax Tutorial — No-code parallax scroll tutorial, great for 
(firewatchgame.com)
 
→ Firewatch Game Website — The most famous parallax website ever — multiple illustrated layers  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
illusion should be clearly visible when scrolling through the section." 
JavaScript IntersectionObserver or requestAnimationFrame to update transforms on scroll. The depth 
that move at 60% speed. Foreground layer: hero headline and CTA that scroll normally at 100%. Use 
moves at 30% of scroll speed (translateY by 0.3 * scrollY). Middle layer: floating abstract blob shapes 
"Build a parallax hero section with 3 scrolling layers. Background layer: a mountain/nature image that 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
background (moves 50%), foreground text (moves 100%). 
distance to each layer. Three layers minimum: far background (moves 20% of scroll speed), mid 
far the user has scrolled and applies a CSS transform: translateY() at a fraction of that scroll 
it stay put while the content scrolls over it. More advanced parallax uses JavaScript to track how 
The simplest version uses CSS background-attachment: fixed on a background image, making 
How it works 
distant objects appear to move slower than close ones. 
speed. This makes the page feel three-dimensional — like looking through a window where 
speeds. The background moves slowly while the foreground (text, buttons) moves at normal 
Parallax creates an illusion of depth by making different layers of the page scroll at different 
What it is 
2.1 Parallax Scrolling 
 
Used poorly, they're just distracting. 
well, they guide attention, reveal content at the right moment, and make a site feel premium. 
control how elements appear, move, and respond as the user scrolls through your page. Used 
Scroll and animation are what separate a static website from an experience. These techniques 
2. Scroll & Animation 
----------------Page (10) Break----------------
content sideways instead. So as you scroll DOW N with your mouse or finger, the content inside 
W hile the page scrolls vertically (up-down), a specific section 'hijacks' the scroll and moves the 
What it is 
2.3 Horizontal Scroll Sections 
 
(gsap.com/scroll)
 
→ GSAP ScrollTrigger Demos — The most powerful scroll animation library — see what's possible  
supports  (michalsnik.github.io/aos)    
→ AOS (Animate On Scroll) Demo — Interactive demo of every scroll animation type this library 
they are  (stripe.com)   
→ Stripe.com — Best-in-class scroll animations on every section — study how subtle and purposeful 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
0.2s)." 
For 3-column feature grids, stagger each card by 0.1s extra delay (first card 0s, second 0.1s, third 
opacity:1, transform:translateY(0) with transition duration 0.6s and ease: cubic-bezier(0.4, 0, 0.2, 1). 
opacity:0 and transform:translateY(30px). On intersection, add class .visible which transitions to 
IntersectionObserver to detect when each element is 20% visible. Apply these default start states: 
"Build a features page where every card and section animates into view on scroll. Use 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
AOS library    Animate On Scroll — a simple JavaScript library that handles all this automatically 
effect 
Stagger      Delaying each element slightly more than the previous — creates a cascading 
→ 0 
translateY(40px) Element moves upward as it reveals — the 'rise' in fade-up 
opacity: 0 → 1   Element goes from invisible to fully visible — the foundation of fade animations 
erver 
IntersectionObs A JavaScript API that fires a callback when an element enters/leaves the viewport 
 
long the animation takes and its easing — determines whether it feels smooth or janky. 
transform:translateY(40px), then transitions to opacity:1 and translateY(0). The timing — how 
transition or animation that plays the reveal. The element starts with opacity:0 and 
W hen an element enters, a CSS class is added to it (like .visible). That class triggers a CSS 
The IntersectionObserver JavaScript API watches when elements enter or leave the viewport. 
How it works 
fades in and slides up. 
classic version is 'fade up' — element starts invisible and slightly below its final position, then 
into place. This is by far the most common animation technique on modern websites. The 
----------------Page (11) Break----------------
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
the visual on the left stays put and can change to reflect each feature. 
column that scrolls normally (the feature list). As the user scrolls through features on the right, 
with position:sticky (the persistent visual — a phone mockup, screenshot, or graphic) and right 
of the viewport as long as its parent is in view. A common layout has two columns: left column 
The simplest implementation uses CSS position:sticky top:0, which keeps the element at the top 
How it works 
screenshot on the left while the user scrolls through a list of features on the right. 
called 'pinning'. It's perfect for feature explanations where you want to show one product 
Once the user scrolls past that section, the element releases and scrolls away normally. This is 
An element stays fixed on the screen while the user scrolls, but ONLY within its parent section. 
What it is 
2.4 Sticky Sections / Pinning 
 
clone  (webflow  .com/templates)   
→ Webflow — Horizontal Scroll Template — No-code horizontal scroll examples you can study and 
(locomotivemtl.github.io/locomotive-scroll)
 
→ Locomotive Scroll Examples — Smooth scroll library with horizontal scroll demos  
(activetheory .net)
 
→ Active Theory Agency — Award-winning agency with complex horizontal scroll portfolio  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
bar at the bottom of the section." 
screenshot (top 60%), project title, brief description, and 'View Project' link. Add a horizontal progress 
ScrollTrigger with pin:true and scrub:1 for a smooth tied-to-scroll feel. Each card has a project 
page height, the cards slide horizontally from right to left revealing each project. Use GSAP 
section should contain 5 project cards, each 80vw wide. As the user scrolls down through 500px of 
"Create a horizontal scroll portfolio section that pins to the screen while the user scrolls vertically. The 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
ScrollTrigger's pin and horizontal scrub features. 
100vw wide, the section stays pinned for 500vh of scrolling. Typically implemented with GSAP 
scrolling distance controls how far the horizontal movement goes — if you have 5 cards each 
required distance, the inner content (a row of cards or panels) moves horizontally. The total 
The section is 'pinned' in place on the screen while the user scrolls. As the user scrolls the 
How it works 
horizontal timeline. Used a lot on portfolio sites, case study pages, and product showcases. 
that section slides from RIGHT to LEFT. It feels like flipping through cards or reading a 
----------------Page (12) Break----------------
animation  (awwwards.com/websites/typography)        
→ Awwwards — Typography category — Filter for sites winning awards for typography and text 
(split-type.vercel.app)
 
→ SplitType.js Demo — Library documentation with live demos of text splitting and animation  
→ Resn.co.nz — New Zealand agency — stunning text reveal animations throughout  (resn.co.nz)   
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
duration per word: 0.5 seconds." 
transition-timing-function: cubic-bezier(0.4,0,0.2,1) for a smooth, professional feel. Total animation 
0.08 second stagger between each word (word 1 at 0s, word 2 at 0.08s, word 3 at 0.16s, etc.). Use 
at opacity:0 and transform:translateY(20px), then transitions to opacity:1 and translateY(0). Apply a 
into individual word spans using a JavaScript loop. On page load (or scroll trigger), each word starts 
"Create a hero section with a word-by-word text reveal animation. The main headline should be split 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
focus transition. 
effect itself can be: fade from opacity 0, slide up from below a clipping mask, or a blurry-to-sharp 
those spans with a stagger — each one delayed slightly more than the previous. The reveal 
individual spans — one per word or even per character. Then GSAP or CSS animations target 
A JavaScript library called SplitType.js takes a heading like 'Hello W orld' and splits it into 
How it works 
'emerge' as the user scrolls through. 
anywhere that wants to create a dramatic, editorial feel. The text seems to 'write itself' or 
by one as the user scrolls. This is very popular on agency websites, portfolio sites, and 
Instead of the whole heading appearing at once, individual words or characters animate in one 
What it is 
2.5 Text Reveal on Scroll 
 
(lottiefiles.com)
 
→ Lottiefiles.com — Uses sticky panels with animated Lottie illustrations alongside scrolling text  
→ Linear.app — Excellent sticky feature sections with animated product screenshots  (linear.app)  
right  (notion.so)  
→ Notion.so Features page — Classic sticky scroll — left screenshot stays while feature text scrolls 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
UI screen with a smooth crossfade transition." 
detect which block is most visible and update the left screenshot to show the corresponding product 
description. As the user scrolls through each feature block on the right, use IntersectionObserver to 
column (60% width): 4 feature blocks stacked vertically, each 400px tall, with icon, heading, and 2-line 
phone mockup or browser window screenshot with position:sticky top:80px that stays in view. Right 
"Design a SaaS feature explanation section with a sticky scroll layout. Left column (40% width): a 
----------------Page (13) Break----------------
 
(smashingmagazine.com)
 
→ Any long-form blog — Scroll down any long article on major blogs — many now have this built in  
examples  (css-tricks.com)   
→ CSS Tricks article on progress bars — Technical breakdown of how to build one, with code 
pattern  (medium.com)    
→ Medium.com articles — Medium uses a reading progress bar — the standard reference for this 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
pink #f64f59. Add a smooth transition of 0.1s on the scale for a slight lag that feels natural." 
Update the inner div's scaleX to the progress value (0 to 1). Use a gradient fill from purple #667eea to 
transform-origin:left. On scroll event, calculate progress: scrolled / (totalHeight - viewportHeight). 
height:3px, width:100%, z-index:9999. Inside it, a div that starts at transform:scaleX(0) and 
"Add a reading progress bar to a blog post page. Create a fixed element: position:fixed, top:0, left:0, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
transform:scaleX() instead of changing width is smoother on most devices. 
scrolled. A JavaScript scroll event listener updates the width in real-time. Using CSS 
window.innerHeight)) * 100. This formula gives 0% when at the top and 100% when fully 
Its width is calculated as a percentage: (scrollY / (document.body.scrollHeight - 
A fixed-position element sits at the top of the viewport (position:fixed, top:0, left:0, height:3-4px). 
How it works 
blog posts and articles. 
full. It gives readers a sense of how far through the content they are, particularly useful on long 
the page. W hen the user is at the top, the bar is empty. W hen they reach the bottom, the bar is 
A thin bar, usually at the very top of the page, that fills from left to right as the user reads down 
What it is 
2.6 Scroll Progress Indicator 
 
----------------Page (14) Break----------------
implementations  (awwwards.com)     
→ Awwwards — Sites using Lenis — Filter Awwwards sites by 'smooth scroll' to find the best 
native and smooth scroll  (lenis.darkroom.engineering)     
→ Lenis by Studio Freight — Demo — The official Lenis demo page — feel the difference between 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
ScrollTrigger.update) and gsap.ticker.add((time) => { lenis.raf(time * 1000) })." 
requestAnimationFrame(raf). If GSAP ScrollTrigger is used on this page, also add: lenis.on('scroll', 
animation loop: function raf(time) { lenis.raf(time); requestAnimationFrame(raf); } 
Lenis({ duration: 1.2, easing: (t) => Math.min(1, 1.001 - Math.pow(2, -10 * t)), smooth: true }). Run in 
src='https://unpkg.com/lenis@ 1.1.13/dist/lenis.min.js'></script>. Initialize with: const lenis = new 
"Add Lenis smooth scrolling to this website. Import Lenis from CDN: <script 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
it can cause visual glitches. 
However: never apply smooth scroll to pages with fixed-height modals or overflow:hidden sections — 
site feels premium and polished. It's one of the cheapest ways to make a website feel high-end. 
TIP  Smooth scroll is a FEEL upgrade, not a visual one. Users might not notice it consciously, but the 
 
compatibility 
GSAP      Lenis passes its scroll position to GSAP so ScrollTrigger animations still work 
lerp         Linear interpolation — how Lenis blends current position toward target position 
Easing       The math curve controlling deceleration — cubic-bezier controls the 'feel' 
onFrame      smooth 
requestAnimati A browser API that fires a callback 60 times per second — how Lenis stays 
Lenis        The most popular smooth scroll JavaScript library — free and widely used 
 
pass Lenis's scroll position to GSAP and all your scroll-triggered animations work as expected. 
frame using requestAnimationFrame. It integrates directly with GSAP ScrollTrigger — you just 
GPU-accelerated. Lenis is initialized with a few lines of JavaScript and runs on every animation 
via CSS transform instead of actual scrolling. This is smoother because CSS transforms are 
touch swipe, trackpad), applies its own easing and momentum math, and then moves the page 
Lenis works by overriding the browser's native scroll. It intercepts scroll input (mouse wheel, 
How it works 
think 'this scroll feels incredible, so buttery' — that's almost always Lenis. 
rest. Lenis is the most popular modern JavaScript library for this. W hen you visit a website and 
the page decelerates smoothly instead of stopping abruptly, like a heavy object slowly coming to 
jumps. Smooth scroll replaces this with a physics-based momentum system: when you scroll, 
By default, browsers scroll in a very mechanical, instant way — you flick the wheel and the page 
What it is 
2.7 Smooth Scroll / Lenis 
----------------Page (15) Break----------------
 
 
widely used  (locomotivemtl.github.io/locomotive-scroll)      
→ Locomotive Scroll — Alternative smooth scroll library with its own parallax system — older but 
----------------Page (16) Break----------------
body (left-aligned text, comfortable line length of 65-70 characters max, 18px body text). Right 
article title (left-aligned, not centered). Below: a two-column layout — left column 68% width for article 
"Design a long-form blog article layout following the F-pattern reading behavior. Full-width header with 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
below the fold where reading begins. 
common. For marketing pages: center your hero for visual impact, then switch to left-aligned layouts 
with lots of imagery, a Z-pattern (top-left → top-right → bottom-left → bottom-right diagonal) is more 
TIP  The F-pattern is strongest on text-heavy pages like articles and search results. On landing pages 
 
reading 
Scanning vs   Most users scan first, read only if interested — design for scanners first 
Z-pattern      For pages with less text (landing pages), eyes scan in a Z rather than F 
Visual anchors  Bold text, images, and icons create stopping points that pull the eye 
priority 
Left edge    Left column and left-aligned text gets far more attention than right-aligned 
Above the fold   The top portion visible without scrolling — highest attention zone 
 
strategically placed where eyes actually go. 
than reading. This means left-aligned text, left-placed CTAs, and left-column navigation are all 
Content on the far right of the page is often never seen at all by users who are scanning rather 
still near the top-left. Your left margin and left edge of content are seen far more than the right. 
headline, navigation, hero message). Put your second most important element below that but 
The practical takeaway is: put your most important content in the top horizontal band (the 
How it works 
fall. 
Understanding this pattern helps you place your most important content where eyes naturally 
then their eyes drift down the left edge of the page reading only the first few words of each line. 
top bar of the F), then they scan a shorter horizontal band a little lower (the middle bar of the F), 
word equally. Instead, they trace an F-shape: first they scan across the very top of the page (the 
Eye-tracking research has shown that when people read web pages, their eyes don't scan every 
What it is 
3.1 F-Pattern Layout 
scrolling). 
center vs edges, how much space between elements, and what's above the fold (visible without 
important, without them noticing. Layout decisions include: how many columns, what's in the 
each other. A great layout guides the reader's eye from the most important element to the least 
Layout is how you organize information on the page — where things go and how they relate to 
3. Layouts 
----------------Page (17) Break----------------
 
identified the F-pattern, with heatmap images  (nngroup.com/articles/f-shaped-pattern-reading-web-content)          
→ Nielsen Norman Group — F-Pattern research — The original eye-tracking research paper that 
(smashingmagazine.com)
 
→ Smashing Magazine — Expert-level article layout with strategic left-aligned hierarchy  
reading behavior  (medium.com)    
→ Medium.com — Article layout — Clean left-aligned article layout designed around natural 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
the left-aligned body column, not in the right sidebar." 
inline pull-quotes to create visual stopping points. Place key CTAs (email signup, related articles) in 
body, use bold lead sentences at the start of each paragraph, subheadings every 200-300 words, and 
column 28% width for a sticky table of contents sidebar that stays visible as you read. In the article 
----------------Page (18) Break----------------
How it works 
corporate. 
creates visual tension that makes the layout feel dynamic and intentional rather than sterile and 
video, illustration), while the other side gets supporting content (text, stats, CTA). The imbalance 
proportions — like 60/40, 65/35, or 70/30. One side gets the dominant visual (large image, 
Instead of dividing the page into equal 50/50 halves, asymmetric layouts use unequal 
What it is 
3.3 Asymmetric / Split Layout 
 
type  (landingfolio.com)   
→ Landingfolio.com — Gallery of 1000+ landing page designs for inspiration — all tagged by layout 
(tailwindui.com/components)
 
→ Tailwind UI Components — Pre-built hero and feature grid components to study the structure  
perfectly  (vercel.com)   
→ Vercel.com — The reference standard for SaaS landing pages — hero + feature grid done 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
quote. Then a pricing section. Finish with a CTA banner and footer." 
small colored icon, bold feature title, 2-sentence description. 6 cards total. Below that: a testimonial 
company logos in light gray. Then a feature grid: 3-column responsive CSS grid, each card has a 
subtext, and two buttons side by side (primary: filled blue, secondary: outlined). Below: a row of 5-6 
content, badge chip at top ('Now in Beta'), H1 headline at 64px bold with a gradient word, 1-line 
"Build a complete SaaS landing page layout. Hero section: dark background (#0A0A0A), centered 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
you're highlighting. 
sentence description. The grid can have 2-4 rows of cards depending on how many features 
Then the feature grid: 3 equal columns, each card with an icon, a 3-5 word title, and a 1-2 
and a primary CTA button. Below this, often a strip of company logos ('Trusted by X and Y'). 
Hero section: full-width, center-aligned, bold H1 headline (max 8 words), one-sentence subtext, 
How it works 
product. This layout has been battle-tested and converts extremely well. 
a grid of Feature cards (usually 3 columns, 2-3 rows) each explaining one capability of the 
top: a large, bold Hero section that states the main value proposition with a CTA button. Below: 
The single most common layout for SaaS (Software as a Service) and product websites. At the 
What it is 
3.2 Hero + Feature Grid 
 
----------------Page (19) Break----------------
category filter bar at the top (All, Architecture, Portraits, Nature) that filters which images show." 
On mobile (under 768px), reduce to columns:2. Under 480px, reduce to columns:1. Include a 
masonry effect clearly. Add a hover overlay on each image showing a brief caption and a zoom icon. 
margin-bottom:12px. Images should be different heights (some portrait, some landscape) to show the 
12px on the container. Each image card should be display:inline-block, width:100%, 
"Build a photography portfolio gallery using masonry layout. Use CSS columns: 3 with column-gap: 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
result is the same: a grid where nothing is wasted. 
JavaScript libraries like Masonry.js or Packery calculate and position each item manually. The 
needs. Items flow down the first column, then the second, then third. For more control, 
makes content flow into 3 columns automatically, with each item taking only as much height as it 
The simplest CSS approach uses the CSS columns property: columns: 3 on the container 
How it works 
and social feeds. 
feels organic and content-rich, making it perfect for photo galleries, blog posts, design portfolios, 
adjacent columns, rather than leaving empty space. This creates a Pinterest-style mosaic that 
where each card's height is determined by its content. Short items fill in below taller items in 
Named after the way bricklayers stack bricks, a masonry layout arranges cards in columns 
What it is 
3.4 Masonry Layout 
 
→ Lapa.ninja — Curated landing page designs — many use asymmetric splits beautifully  (lapa.ninja)  
→ Dribbble — Split Layout — Search 'split layout web design' for visual references  (dribbble.com)   
pages  (notion.so)  
→ Notion.so Marketing pages — Excellent use of asymmetric split layouts across their feature 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
right, text on left) for visual variety." 
grid-template-columns: 3fr 2fr. Add a second split section below with the layout reversed (image on 
2-paragraph description, feature checklist with checkmarks, and a CTA button. Use CSS Grid: 
(40%): vertically centered content with a small overline label (like 'NEW  FEATURE'), H2 heading, 
product screenshot or mockup with subtle shadow, slightly overlapping the right column. Right side 
"Create a product landing page using a 60/40 asymmetric split layout. Left side (60%): full-height 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
while the smaller text column creates breathing room and guides the eye to the CTA. 
key visual design principle here is contrast — a large, bold visual on one side creates focus, 
holds the headline, description, and CTA. On mobile, both columns stack to 100% width. The 
1fr (67/33). The larger column holds the hero image or product screenshot. The smaller column 
Using CSS Grid with non-equal column definitions: grid-template-columns: 3fr 2fr (60/40) or 2fr 
----------------Page (20) Break----------------
3.6 Sidebar + Content Layout 
 
(sony .com)
 
→ Sony BE MOVED campaign — Classic example of fullpage scroll storytelling for a product  
(webflow  .com/templates)
 
→ Webflow — Full Page Templates — No-code full-page scroll website templates  
the pattern  (alvarotrigo.com/fullPage/examples)      
→ FullPage.js Examples — The most popular fullpage scroll library — dozens of examples showing 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
active dot is filled white, clicking a dot smoothly scrolls to that section using scrollIntoView." 
5: Final CTA with newsletter signup. Add navigation dots on the right side: fixed position, 5 small dots, 
Section 3: Statistics with 3 large numbers. Section 4: Testimonial quote centered with author. Section 
Section 1: Dark hero with headline and CTA. Section 2: Feature explanation with image left, text right. 
overflow-y:scroll, scroll-snap-type:y mandatory. Each section: height:100vh, scroll-snap-align:start. 
"Build a 5-section fullpage scroll website using CSS scroll-snap. Container: height:100vh, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
focused message, one visual, and one CTA. 
transitions, callbacks), the fullPage.js library handles everything. Each section typically has one 
browser then handles the snapping automatically. For more features (navigation dots, 
overflow-y: scroll. Each child section gets height: 100vh and scroll-snap-align: start. The 
CSS makes this surprisingly simple. The container gets scroll-snap-type: y mandatory and 
How it works 
a time. This creates a very controlled, cinematic storytelling experience. 
slides in a presentation. There's no partial scrolling; you're always viewing exactly one section at 
W hen the user scrolls, the page snaps to the next full-screen section — like flipping between 
Each section of the website fills the entire screen (100% of the viewport height, called 100vh). 
What it is 
3.5 Full-Page Scroll Sections 
 
examples  (masonry  .desandro.com)    
→ Masonry.js documentation — The classic JavaScript masonry library with demos and code 
together  (unsplash.com)    
→ Unsplash.com — Beautiful masonry photo grid — notice how differently-sized photos flow 
(pinterest.com)
 
→ Pinterest.com — The masonry layout — this is exactly where the style became mainstream  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
----------------Page (21) Break----------------
 
(adminlte.io)
 
→ AdminLTE Demo — Open-source admin dashboard template showing complex sidebar layouts  
(tailwindui.com/components#application-ui)
 
→ Tailwind UI — Application UI — Pre-built sidebar dashboard components showing all variations  
perfectly  (vercel.com/dashboard)     
→ Vercel Dashboard — The reference for modern SaaS dashboards — sidebar + content done 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
menu." 
Revenue, Orders, Growth), then a data table. On mobile, sidebar collapses behind a hamburger 
header bar with page title and action buttons. Content below shows: 4 stat cards in a row (Users, 
avatar + name at bottom. Main content area: flex-1, light gray background (#F9FAFB), has a top 
icons (Dashboard, Analytics, Projects, Settings, Team) with active state highlighted in blue, and user 
background (#111827), fixed to left side, height:100vh. Contains: logo at top, navigation links with 
"Build a SaaS dashboard layout with a sidebar + content structure. Sidebar: 240px wide, dark 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
bottom. The content area has its own internal scrolling. 
contains the logo at top, navigation links in the middle (with icons), and user profile at the 
position:sticky top:0 with height:100vh so it stays visible while the content scrolls. The sidebar 
(240-280px) and a flex-1 or fr content area that fills the remaining space. The sidebar gets 
The outer container uses display:flex or CSS Grid with two columns: a fixed-width sidebar 
How it works 
main navigation, while the content area shows whatever page is currently selected. 
sidebar stays fixed as the main content area scrolls. The sidebar typically contains the app's 
right. This is the universal layout for web applications, dashboards, and admin interfaces. The 
A persistent navigation panel on the left side of the screen, with the main working area on the 
What it is 
----------------Page (22) Break----------------
its resemblance to a hamburger when viewed from the side: bun, patty, bun = three horizontal 
On mobile screens, there isn't room for all navigation links. The hamburger menu (named after 
What it is 
4.2 Hamburger / Mobile Menu 
 
→ Framer.com — Beautiful sticky nav with a smooth scroll-based transparency effect  (framer .com)  
→ GitHub.com — Clean sticky navbar with excellent mobile behavior  (github.com)   
(apple.com)
 
→ Apple.com — The sticky frosted-glass navbar — the most copied navbar design in the world  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
the center links and show a hamburger menu icon instead." 
right. Add a 0.3s transition on background-color and backdrop-filter. On mobile (under 768px), hide 
rgba(0,0,0,0.08)). Navigation has: logo on the left, 5 nav links in the center, and a CTA button on the 
(background:rgba(255,255,255,0.85), backdrop-filter:blur(12px), box-shadow: 0 1px 20px 
transitions to a white frosted-glass background when the user scrolls past 60px 
"Create a sticky navbar that is transparent at the very top of the page (background:transparent) and 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
some threshold like 80). 
detected by listening to the scroll event and checking if window.scrollY is greater than 0 (or 
as the user scrolls even a few pixels, it transitions to a solid or frosted-glass background. This is 
popular enhancement: the navbar starts transparent (showing the hero content behind it), and 
position:sticky top:0 keeps the navbar at the top of the viewport when within its parent. A 
How it works 
websites and landing pages. 
user has scrolled. This is the most common and expected navigation pattern for marketing 
that scrolls away with the page, a sticky nav is always accessible no matter how far down the 
A navigation bar that stays fixed to the top of the viewport as the user scrolls. Unlike a static nav 
What it is 
4.1 Sticky Navbar 
 
pattern you choose depends on the complexity of your site and the devices it's used on. 
Bad navigation is noticed immediately because users get lost or frustrated. The navigation 
users don't notice it because they always know where they are and how to get where they want. 
Navigation is how users find their way around your website. Good navigation is invisible — 
4. Navigation 
----------------Page (23) Break----------------
 
slide-in animation. On desktop it's hover-triggered; on mobile, a click/tap opens it. 
panel with an image and a highlighted promotion. The panel appears with a subtle fade or 
each containing a category heading and 4-8 links below it. One column might be a 'Featured' 
or wide panel appears below the nav bar. This panel is typically organized into 3-5 columns, 
W hen the user hovers a navigation link (or clicks on mobile), an absolutely-positioned full-width 
How it works 
and large corporate websites. 
common on e-commerce sites ('Shop' opens a panel with all categories), documentation sites, 
They're used on complex websites where a single nav item leads to many sub-pages — 
columns of links, featured images, highlighted promotions, icons, and even mini descriptions. 
navigation item. Unlike a simple dropdown with a list of links, a mega menu can contain multiple 
A mega menu is a large dropdown panel that appears when you hover over (or click) a 
What it is 
4.3 Mega Menu 
 
 
(cuberto.com)
 
→ Cuberto.com — Russian agency with beautiful fullscreen hamburger menu animations  
with code  (tympanus.net/codrops)     
→ Codrops — Menu Animations — Collection of creative hamburger menu animation techniques 
'agency portfolio' on Awwwards  (awwwards.com/websites/portfolio)      
→ Many agency websites — Most creative agency sites use fullscreen hamburger menus — search 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
button (X) in top right. Body scroll should be locked when menu is open (overflow:hidden on body)." 
links appear centered, large (40px), white, with a stagger fade-in (each link 0.05s later). Include close 
fullscreen menu overlay uses position:fixed, inset:0, background:#0A0A0A, z-index:9999. Navigation 
and translates down, middle line fades to opacity:0, bottom line rotates -45deg and translates up. The 
2px tall, dark color, with 5px gap between them. W hen clicked, animate to X: top line rotates 45deg 
"Build a fullscreen hamburger menu for mobile. Three-line hamburger icon: each line is 24px wide, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
fade or slide-in transition. 
to opacity:0, the bottom line rotates -45 degrees. The overlay menu typically appears with a 
animate into an X using CSS transforms: the top line rotates 45 degrees, the middle line fades 
toggles a class on a fullscreen overlay element (display:none → display:flex). The three lines 
Three horizontal div elements (or a custom SVG) form the icon. W hen clicked, JavaScript 
How it works 
a fullscreen overlay, a side drawer, or a dropdown panel. 
lines) hides all navigation behind a single icon. Tapping it reveals the full navigation — either as 
----------------Page (24) Break----------------
plugin. 
Clicking a dot triggers a smooth scroll to that section using scrollIntoView() or GSAP's scrollTo 
IntersectionObserver or ScrollTrigger callbacks) and updates which dot has the 'active' class. 
when active. As the user scrolls, JavaScript detects which section is currently in view (using 
edge of the viewport. They're styled with a semi-transparent border by default and filled solid 
The dots are small circular elements (8-12px diameter) positioned with position:fixed on the right 
How it works 
presentations where the page snaps from section to section. 
This pattern is almost exclusively used on fullpage scroll websites and slideshow-style 
section is filled or larger than the others. Clicking a dot instantly jumps the page to that section. 
represents one section or slide of the website. The dot corresponding to the currently-visible 
A small set of dots (usually 4-8) positioned on the right or bottom side of the screen. Each dot 
What it is 
4.4 Dot Navigation 
 
their design system  (polaris.shopify  .com)  
→ Shopify — Polaris Navigation docs — How Shopify designs and implements mega menus in 
(apple.com)
 
→ Apple.com navigation — Refined mega menu for a product company — minimal but effective  
(asos.com)
 
→ ASOS.com — One of the best mega menus on the web — clean, fast, multi-column with imagery  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
nav link and the panel." 
Animate the panel: opacity 0 to 1, translateY(-8px) to 0, over 0.2s. Close when mouse leaves both the 
featured image panel with a product photo, 'New Arrivals' label in a badge, and a 'Shop Now' button. 
Jewelry, Scarves). Column 3 'By Occasion' with links (W ork, W eekend, Party, Holiday). Column 4: a 
links (Dresses, Tops, Jeans, Jackets, Skirts). Column 2 'Accessories' with links (Bags, Shoes, 
40px rgba(0,0,0,0.1), padding:40px). Panel contains a 4-column CSS grid: Column 1 'Clothing' with 
Sale. W hen hovering 'W omen': a full-width panel drops down (background white, box-shadow: 0 20px 
"Create a mega menu for an e-commerce fashion website. Navbar has links: W omen, Men, Kids, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
z-index       Mega menu must have high z-index (like 9000) to appear above all page content 
column 
Featured     One column with an image and CTA — draws attention to a promoted item 
grid 
Multi-column   Inside the panel, links are organized into 3-5 equal columns using CSS Grid 
Hover trigger   Desktop: hover on nav link shows the panel. Mobile: tap/click instead. 
e 
position:absolutThe mega menu panel is absolutely positioned below the nav bar 
----------------Page (25) Break----------------
style is intentionally subtle — small font size (13-14px), muted color — so it doesn't compete 
and is NOT a link (it's where you already are). All items before it are clickable links. The visual 
usually a forward slash (/), chevron (›), or angle bracket (>). The current page is the last item 
Breadcrumbs are an ordered list (HTML ol element) of links separated by a visual divider — 
How it works 
website with more than 2 levels of depth. 
level with one click. They're essential on e-commerce sites, documentation portals, and any 
Current Page. They let users understand exactly where they are and jump back to any parent 
your way home), they appear as a horizontal trail of links: Home > Category > Subcategory > 
website's hierarchy. Named after the Hansel and Gretel fairy tale (dropping breadcrumbs to find 
Breadcrumbs are a secondary navigation element showing the user's current location within the 
What it is 
4.5 Breadcrumbs 
 
styles  (dribbble.com/tags/dot-navigation)      
→ Dribbble — Dot Navigation UI — Search 'dot navigation' for visual examples of different dot 
fullpage sections  (apple.com/apple-events)     
→ Apple — Special event pages — Apple's product keynote microsites use dot nav for their 
behavior  (alvarotrigo.com/fullPage/examples)      
→ FullPage.js examples — Every fullPage.js demo uses dot navigation — click the dots to see the 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
IntersectionObserver (threshold:0.5) to update active dot as sections scroll into view." 
positioned, background:rgba(0,0,0,0.7), white text, padding:4px 10px, border-radius:4px). Use 
rgba(255,255,255,0.5). On hover of any dot, show a tooltip to the left with the section name (absolute 
12px width and height, background:white, border-color:white, box-shadow:0 0 8px 
rgba(255,255,255,0.6), background:transparent, cursor:pointer, transition all 0.3s. Active dot style: 
between dots. Default dot style: 8px width and height, border-radius:50%, border:2px solid 
right:24px, top:50%, transform:translateY(-50%), displayed as a vertical column with 16px gap 
"Add dot navigation to a 6-section fullpage scroll website. Create 6 dots using position:fixed, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
scrollIntoView()  JavaScript method to smoothly scroll to a specific element when a dot is clicked 
jumping 
Tooltip on hover  Hovering a dot shows the section name — helps users know where they're 
erver 
IntersectionObs Detects which section is currently most visible to update the active dot 
Active state    Active dot: larger (12px vs 8px), fully filled. Others: outlined or semi-transparent. 
right 
position:fixed  Dots are fixed to the viewport so they stay visible as sections change 
 
----------------Page (26) Break----------------
visually: an underline border-bottom in the brand color, a filled background, bold text, or a 
A row of button or anchor elements acts as the tab strip. The currently active tab is indicated 
How it works 
product page, or different dashboard views like Overview, Analytics, and Settings. 
need to switch between without leaving the page: product specs vs reviews vs Q&A on a 
a tab and you see what's in that folder. Tabs are perfect for organizing related content that users 
swaps the content panel below it. Think of a physical filing cabinet with tabbed dividers — click 
Tabs are a horizontal row of clickable labels at the top of a content area, where clicking a tab 
What it is 
4.6 Tab Navigation 
 
(zalando.com)
 
→ Zalando.com — E-commerce with excellent breadcrumb implementation and schema markup  
hierarchies  (developer  .mozilla.org)  
→ MDN Web Docs — Documentation portal with clean breadcrumb navigation showing deep page 
implementation in the world  (amazon.com)    
→ Amazon.com product pages — Every product page has breadcrumbs — the most-seen 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
SEO." 
top and bottom padding. Also add JSON-LD schema.org BreadcrumbList markup in the head for 
this page: Home → Men's Clothing → Outerwear → W inter Jackets. W rap in a container with 16px 
Separator: CSS li + li::before { content: '›'; margin: 0 8px; color:#CCCCCC }. The breadcrumb path for 
hover:color:#111 with 0.2s transition. Last item (current page): color:#111, font-weight:500, no link. 
font-size:13px, color:#888888. Each link (except last): color:#888, text-decoration:none, 
aria-label='Breadcrumb'><ol> with li items separated by CSS-generated dividers. Style: 
"Add a breadcrumb navigation to a product detail page. HTML structure: <nav 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Separator     The divider between items — usually CSS ::after content: '/' or '›' 
markup 
schema.org   Structured data that makes breadcrumbs appear in Google search results 
e 
aria-current:pag Marks the current (last) item for screen readers — no link on this item 
crumb 
aria-label:bread Accessibility attribute that tells screen readers this is a breadcrumb navigation 
ol element     Breadcrumbs use an ordered list (ol) for correct HTML semantics 
 
understand and display breadcrumbs in search results. 
with the main page heading. Adding schema.org BreadcrumbList markup helps Google 
----------------Page (27) Break----------------
 
implementation  (amazon.com)    
→ Amazon product pages — Product Details / Reviews / Q&A tabs — high-traffic e-commerce tab 
(radix-ui.com/primitives/docs/components/tabs)
 
→ Radix UI — Tabs component — Fully accessible, animated tab component with code examples  
millions of developers daily  (github.com)   
→ GitHub repository pages — The Code / Issues / Pull Requests / Actions tab bar — used by 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
activation." 
active panel is visible (others display:none). Each panel has fade-in: opacity 0 to 1 over 0.2s on 
ease, width matches the active tab) that slides across when tabs are clicked. Content panels: only the 
a sliding animated indicator: a 2px blue line (position:absolute, bottom:-1px, transition:transform 0.25s 
border-bottom:2px solid #2563EB (brand blue), margin-bottom:-1px to overlap container border. Add 
have padding:14px 24px, font-size:15px, font-weight:500, color:#6B7280. Active tab: color:#111, 
(with count badge), FAQ. Tab strip styling: white background, bottom border 1px solid #E5E7EB, tabs 
"Build a product detail page with tab navigation. Tab bar: 4 tabs — Overview, Specifications, Reviews 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
when tabs are clicked. Calculate the target X position from the clicked tab's offsetLeft. 
a separate underline element (position:absolute, bottom:0) that moves via transform:translateX() 
TIP  The sliding animated tab indicator is a great detail that makes tabs feel premium. Achieve it with 
 
indicator 
Animated    A sliding underline that moves smoothly between tabs — very polished touch 
navigation 
Keyboard    Arrow keys should move between tabs — standard expected behavior 
tabpanel 
role:tab /     Accessibility attributes so keyboard and screen reader users can navigate 
Panel swap    Other panels set to display:none or opacity:0 when their tab is inactive 
Active indicator  Underline, filled background, or bold text showing the selected tab 
 
aria-selected, role:tab, aria-controls and role:tabpanel attributes for accessibility. 
toggling (instant) or an opacity/fade transition (smooth). Each tab and panel pair needs 
content panel while hiding all others. Content panels swap with either display:none/block 
combination. Clicking a tab adds an 'active' class to that tab and shows the corresponding 
----------------Page (28) Break----------------
Essential resource.  (typescale.com)   
→ Typescale.com — Interactive tool — choose a scale ratio and see all the sizes generated. 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
hierarchy is immediately clear." 
font-weight:400, color: muted gray. Apply this system consistently throughout the page so the visual 
--font-h3: 24px, font-weight:600. --font-body: 17px, font-weight:400, line-height:1.7. --font-small: 14px, 
font-weight:700, letter-spacing:-0.02em. --font-h2: clamp(28px, 3.5vw, 44px), font-weight:600. 
96px), font-weight:800, letter-spacing:-0.04em, line-height:1.05. --font-h1: clamp(40px, 5vw, 64px), 
"Define a complete typography system using CSS custom properties. --font-display: clamp(56px, 8vw, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Line-height    1.1-1.2 for headings, 1.6-1.7 for body text — critical for readability 
Letter-spacing   Negative values (-0.02em) on large headings makes them feel tighter and modern 
Font weight    100=thin, 400=normal, 600=semibold, 700=bold, 900=black 
preferred, max) 
clamp(min,   Font size fluidly between min and max — clamp(40px, 6vw, 80px) 
 
based on viewport width. 
function creates fluid typography that smoothly scales between minimum and maximum sizes 
landing pages, you can be more aggressive — H1 at 56-80px, H2 at 36-48px. The clamp() CSS 
scale from 16px: body=16px, H4=20px, H3=25px, H2=31px, H1=39px, display=49px. For 
Start with a base body size of 16px or 18px. Multiply by your ratio for each level up. At 1.25x 
How it works 
communicate importance: the biggest, boldest text is the most important. 
mathematically related to the others. Hierarchy means using size, weight, and color to 
and multiply up and down from a base size. This creates visual harmony because every size is 
choosing random sizes (40px here, 22px there), you pick a scale ratio — like 1.25x or 1.414x — 
A type scale is a system of predetermined font sizes that work harmoniously together. Instead of 
What it is 
5.1 Type Scale & Hierarchy 
 
associations. 
tradition. Color operates the same way — independently of content, color creates emotional 
technology and confidence. The same headline in an elegant serif communicates luxury and 
before a single word is read. A headline in a bold geometric sans-serif communicates 
Typography and color are the DNA of a brand's visual identity. They communicate personality 
5. Typography & Color 
----------------Page (29) Break----------------
 
(fontsinuse.com)
 
→ Fonts In Use — Real-world examples of font usage across websites, posters, and branding  
(fonts.google.com)
 
→ Google Fonts — Pairings — Each font page suggests popular pairings. Free and reliable.  
Google Fonts  (fontshare.com)   
→ Fontshare.com — Free high-quality fonts specifically curated for web design — much better than 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
with letter-spacing:-0.03em. Apply Satoshi to body, p, button, input with line-height:1.6." 
font-weight:400 for paragraphs and 500 for UI labels. Apply Clash Display to all h1, h2, h3 elements 
(https://api.fontshare.com/v2/css?f[]=satoshi@ 400,500&display=swap) for body text at 
font-weight:700. Import Satoshi from Fontshare 
(https://api.fontshare.com/v2/css?f[]=clash-display@ 700&display=swap) for all headings at 
"Use these font pairings for this website: import Clash Display from Fontshare CDN 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Consumer 
Friendly /    Nunito or Poppins (headings) + Source Sans Pro (body) — approachable 
Experimental   Monument Extended (headings) + Neue Haas Grotesk (body) — striking 
Tech / SaaS    Syne (headings) + Inter (body) — clean and functional 
Modern Startup  Clash Display (headings) + Satoshi (body) — bold and contemporary 
Luxury 
Editorial /    Playfair Display (headings) + DM Sans (body) — classic and refined 
 
Recommended pairings for different vibes 
not clash. Using more than two fonts on a website almost always looks amateur. 
should be highly readable at small sizes and in paragraphs. The two fonts should contrast but 
and UI. The heading font should have strong personality and visual impact. The body font 
Using two complementary fonts together — one for headings and display text, one for body text 
What it is 
5.2 Font Pairing 
 
(typewolf.com)
 
→ Typewolf.com — Daily typography inspiration from real websites, with font identification  
(fontjoy .com)
 
→ Fontjoy.com — AI-powered font pairing tool — generates complementary font combinations  
----------------Page (30) Break----------------
What it is 
5.4 Gradient Text 
 
(huemint.com)
 
→ Huemint.com — AI-powered brand color palette generator — generates full palettes instantly  
analogous colors  (paletton.com)   
→ Paletton.com — Color theory-based palette builder showing complementary, triadic, and 
(coolors.co)
 
→ Coolors.co — Color palette generator — generate and lock colors until you find the perfect palette  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
important elements." 
#888888 for captions. Never use the electric blue for anything decorative — only for actionable and 
active navigation links, highlighted text, and icons. Text: #111111 for headings, #555555 for body text, 
sections, and footer. Accent color (10%): #2563EB (electric blue) ONLY for primary CTA buttons, 
page backgrounds. Secondary color (30%): #F0EDE8 (slightly warmer gray) for cards, alternate 
"Design a website using the 60-30-10 color rule. Dominant color (60%): #FAFAF7 (warm off-white) for 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Tints & shades  Lighter/darker versions of one color — creates depth without adding new colors 
Accent (10%)   Brand color — ONLY for CTAs, highlights, active states, key icons 
(30%) 
Secondary    Card backgrounds, alternate sections, sidebar backgrounds 
Dominant (60%)  Your background color — neutral, sets the overall mood 
 
its ability to draw attention. 
button, important statistics, or links. If your accent appears more than 10% of the time, it loses 
section differentiation. The accent 10% draws the eye to what matters — your call-to-action 
near-black dominant color feels premium and serious. The secondary 30% creates depth and 
The dominant 60% sets the overall mood. A near-white dominant color feels light and modern. A 
How it works 
important UI elements). 
backgrounds). 10% uses the accent color (your brand color — for CTAs, highlights, icons, and 
near-black). 30% uses the secondary color (slightly different tone for cards, sections, or 
the visual area uses the dominant color (usually a neutral — white, off-white, light gray, or 
The 60-30-10 rule is a simple color distribution formula borrowed from interior design. 60% of 
What it is 
5.3 Color Theory: The 60-30-10 Rule 
----------------Page (31) Break----------------
(-0.03em to -0.05em) which makes large display text feel more professional and modern — 
(black/extra-bold) for maximum visual weight. Letter-spacing is tightened with a negative value 
scales smoothly from mobile to desktop. Font-weight is usually 700 (bold) or 900 
The key CSS property is font-size set very large — typically using clamp(60px, 9vw, 120px) so it 
How it works 
confidence and personality rather than a generic stock photo. 
on portfolio sites, creative agencies, editorial brands, and tech products that want to lead with 
100px, or even larger, a single headline becomes a visual experience. This approach is popular 
headline is so large, so bold, and so beautifully set that no hero image is needed. At 80px, 
Display typography means using text itself as the primary visual element of a design — the 
What it is 
5.5 Display / Hero Typography 
 
 
 
 
copy and paste ready  (cssgradient.io)   
→ Gradient text CSS generator (CSS Gradient) — Interactive generator for gradient text CSS — 
(vercel.com)
 
→ Vercel.com — Bold gradient text in the hero headline — electric and attention-grabbing  
(stripe.com)
 
→ Stripe.com — Masterful use of subtle gradient text in headings — restrained and effective  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
#38ef7d)." 
Add a second gradient word in the subheading using a different gradient (green to cyan: #11998e to 
specific word in a span with this class. The rest of the headline should be white (on dark background). 
text; -webkit-background-clip: text; -webkit-text-fill-color: transparent; color: transparent. W rap that 
(coral-red). CSS: background: linear-gradient(135deg, #667eea 0%, #f64f59 100%); background-clip: 
that actually convert.' Make the word 'convert' a gradient from #667eea (purple-blue) to #f64f59 
"Apply a gradient color effect to key words in the hero headline. The headline reads: 'Build websites 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
three, it doesn't work. 
color invisible, revealing the gradient background showing through the text shape. W ithout all 
characters. Third, -webkit-text-fill-color: transparent (or color: transparent) makes the actual text 
text element. Second, background-clip: text clips the gradient to the shape of the text 
This is a CSS trick combining three properties. First, set background: linear-gradient(...) on the 
How it works 
words in a headline get the gradient treatment, while the rest of the heading stays solid. 
visual interest to plain text without needing additional design elements. Often just one or two 
flowing from one color to another. Extremely popular in AI/tech/SaaS websites because it adds 
Instead of a solid color for a heading or key word, the text itself is rendered as a gradient — 
----------------Page (32) Break----------------
preference. Offering both modes shows attention to user needs and is now considered a 
Many users prefer dark mode for night-time reading, reduced eye strain, or aesthetic 
(white/off-white background, dark text) and a dark version (near-black background, light text). 
A toggle that lets users switch between two complete visual themes — a light version 
What it is 
5.6 Dark / Light Mode Toggle 
 
as hero  (semplice.com/inspiration)     
→ Semplice portfolio builder — Portfolio sites built on Semplice frequently use display typography 
system  (obys.agency)   
→ Obys Agency — Ukrainian agency — incredible display typography used as the primary visual 
main design element  (awwwards.com/websites/typography)        
→ Awwwards — Typography category — Award-winning sites where display typography is the 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
top and bottom padding." 
buttons stacked vertically. No image anywhere on this hero. Let the typography breathe with 120px 
two-column layout — left: subtext paragraph (18px, muted #888, max-width:400px), right: two CTA 
text (from #667eea to #f64f59). Below the headline: a 1px white horizontal rule at 20% opacity, then a 
craft digital experiences that matter.' Make 'digital experiences' render in italic style AND a gradient 
font-weight:800, letter-spacing:-0.04em, line-height:0.95, color:#F1F1EE. The headline reads: 'W e 
Background: #0A0A0A (near-black). Main headline: font-size clamp(64px, 9vw, 112px), 
"Create a typographic hero section where the headline IS the design — no hero image needed. 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
important concept in your headline. 
'Design with' (regular white) 'purpose.' (gradient color). The contrast word should be the most 
gradient, or italic/outlined style. This creates a visual anchor and rhythm in the headline. Example: 
TIP  One of the most powerful display typography techniques: set one key word in a different color, 
 
Text wrapping   Let display headlines wrap naturally to 2-3 lines — don't force one line 
Font-weight 900  Black or Extra Bold weight — maximum visual impact at large sizes 
Line-height < 1  0.9 to 1.05 for display text — tighter than body text, creates a compact visual mass 
letter-spacing 
Negative     -0.03em to -0.05em on large headings — makes it feel tight and contemporary 
fluid, max)     viewport 
clamp(min,   clamp(60px, 9vw, 120px) — scales the font between min and max based on 
 
display text wraps to fewer lines and tight line height creates a compact, powerful block. 
loose letter-spacing on large text looks cheap. Line-height is reduced (0.9 to 1.1) because 
----------------Page (33) Break----------------
 
theme toggle  (rauno.me)   
→ Rauno Freiberg's portfolio — Designer at Linear — his portfolio has a beautifully implemented 
without the dreaded flash of wrong theme  (joshwcomeau.com/react/dark-mode)        
→ Josh W Comeau — Dark Mode Guide — The most comprehensive guide to building dark mode 
color adapts  (linear.app)  
→ Linear.app — Excellent dark/light mode toggle — notice the smooth transition and how every 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
button shows sun icon in dark mode and moon icon in light mode." 
page load: check localStorage first, then check prefers-color-scheme media query as fallback. Toggle 
}. Toggle button: on click, toggle data-theme='dark' on the html element and save to localStorage. On 
background:var(--bg), color:var(--text). Add body { transition: background 0.3s ease, color 0.3s ease 
--text:#F1F1EE, --text-muted:#888888, --border:#2A2A2A, --accent:#3B82F6. Apply to all elements: 
--accent:#2563EB. Define [data-theme='dark']: --bg:#0D0D0D, --bg-secondary:#1A1A1A, 
--bg-secondary:#F5F5F5, --text:#111111, --text-muted:#666666, --border:#E5E7EB, 
"Implement a complete dark/light mode system. In CSS, define on :root: --bg:#FFFFFF, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
jump 
Transition     transition: background 0.3s, color 0.3s — smooth fade between modes, not instant 
localStorage    Browser storage that saves the user's theme choice across sessions 
heme 
prefers-color-sc CSS media query detecting if the user's OS is set to dark or light mode 
attribute 
data-theme   <html data-theme='dark'> — the selector that triggers dark mode CSS values 
properties 
CSS custom   Variables like --color-bg, --color-text that change value when theme switches 
 
query lets you set the default based on the user's OS setting. 
user's preference to localStorage so it persists between visits. The prefers-color-scheme media 
data-theme='dark'>), which triggers a different set of CSS variable values. JavaScript saves the 
modes means updating the data-theme attribute on the HTML element (like <html 
element. Two sets of values are defined — one for light mode, one for dark mode. Switching 
The entire color system is built using CSS custom properties (variables) defined on the :root 
How it works 
through a CSS media query, which your site can respect automatically. 
standard feature on quality websites. The browser/OS also signals the user's preferred mode 
----------------Page (34) Break----------------
(saaspo.com)
 
→ Saaspo.com — SaaS landing page inspiration gallery — all hero sections catalogued  
library  (landingfolio.com)   
→ Landingfolio.com — Heroes — 500+ hero section designs filtered by style — the best reference 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
mockup with a subtle glow effect." 
row '★★★★★ Loved by 10,000+ teams'. Below that: a product screenshot in a browser chrome 
('Start for free', blue filled) and secondary ('See how it works →', text only). Below buttons: small trust 
20px muted gray: 'The AI-powered workspace that thinks as fast as you do.' Two buttons: primary 
bold: 'Do your best work,' — next line: 'in half the time.' with 'half the time' in gradient text. Subtext at 
(#050505). Badge at top: small pill shape with text 'Now with AI • W hat's new →'. H1 headline at 72px 
"Build a hero section for a productivity SaaS. Layout: centered, full-width, dark background 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
Social proof    Small indicator of trust near the CTA: '2,000+ companies trust us' or star rating 
Primary CTA    One main action button — 'Get Started', 'Try Free', 'Book Demo' 
proposition 
Value      The one sentence that explains what your product does and for whom 
Above the fold   Everything visible before scrolling — this is your hero section's domain 
 
abstract graphic) supports the message without competing with the text. 
dominates, subtext supports, CTA stands out. A visual element (product screenshot, illustration, 
the screen. Content is either centered or left-aligned. The visual hierarchy is strict: headline 
Hero sections are typically full-width and either full-height (100vh) or tall enough to fill most of 
How it works 
the page), a supporting subheadline, and one clear call-to-action button. 
why they should care. It typically contains a main headline (the biggest, most prominent text on 
It's your 3-second pitch. A great hero immediately communicates: what this is, who it's for, and 
The hero is the first thing a visitor sees when they land on your website — before any scrolling. 
What it is 
6.1 Hero Section 
 
prompting an AI builder. 
Learning these patterns means you can describe exactly what component you need when 
a pricing table, an accordion — these patterns have established behaviors that users expect. 
of users across thousands of websites, so users already know how they work. A card, a modal, 
UI patterns are reusable solutions to common design problems. They've been tested by millions 
6. UI Patterns 
----------------Page (35) Break----------------
they trust the company selling the product. The best testimonials are specific ('increased our 
powerful conversion elements on a website — people trust other people's opinions more than 
A section showing quotes from real users of your product. Social proof is one of the most 
What it is 
6.3 Testimonials / Social Proof 
 
(linear.app/pricing)
 
→ Linear.app/pricing — One of the cleanest pricing pages — study the layout and copy  
→ Pricingpages.xyz — Gallery of real SaaS pricing page screenshots and designs  (pricingpages.xyz)    
structures  (tailwindui.com/components/marketing/sections/pricing)         
→ Tailwind UI — Pricing Sections — Multiple pre-built pricing table layouts showing different 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
next to the annual option." 
excluded). The monthly/annual toggle animates the prices changing and shows 'Save 25%' badge 
(bold), price (48px), feature checklist with checkmark icons (green checks, gray crosses for 
button. Enterprise: white card, 'Custom pricing', 6 features, outlined button. All cards have: plan name 
Popular' badge in blue at top, $29/month (annual) / $39/month (monthly), 12 features, filled CTA 
outlined button. Pro tier (highlighted): colored border (#2563EB, 2px), transform:scale(1.04), 'Most 
"Build a 3-tier pricing table with monthly/annual toggle. Free tier: white card, $0/month, 5 features, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
padding to make it literally bigger than the others. 
badge at the top, and sometimes a slight scale-up (transform:scale(1.05)) or extra vertical 
pro/featured plan card gets special visual treatment: a colored border (2px, not just 0.5px), a 
billing period, 1-line description, a checklist of included features, and a CTA button. The 
Three-column layout. Each column is a card containing: plan name, price (large and prominent), 
How it works 
'Most Popular' or 'Recommended' badge — to guide users toward it. 
The pro plan is visually highlighted — larger, with a colored border, an elevated position, and a 
free/starter plan, a paid pro plan (the one you want most people to buy), and an enterprise plan. 
A structured comparison of your product's different pricing tiers. Almost always 3 columns: a 
What it is 
6.2 Pricing Table 
 
structure  (tailwindui.com/components/marketing/sections/heroes)          
→ Tailwind UI — Hero Sections — Pre-built hero section code in multiple styles — study the 
----------------Page (36) Break----------------
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
JavaScript. 
degrees (chevron flips). HTML also has a native details/summary element that does this without 
panel reveals with a smooth CSS transition. The icon rotates 45 degrees (+ becomes ×) or 180 
question is clicked, a class is toggled that changes max-height to a large value (or auto) and the 
panel below it. The answer panel starts at max-height:0 and overflow:hidden. W hen the 
Each item has a visible question row (with a + or chevron icon on the right) and a hidden answer 
How it works 
about. 
shown at once. It lets users scan the questions quickly and only expand the ones they care 
situation where you have many pieces of related content that would be overwhelming if all 
again collapses it. This pattern is perfect for FAQ sections, help documentation, and any 
A list of questions where clicking any question expands it to reveal the answer, then clicking 
What it is 
6.4 Accordion / FAQ 
 
quotes, and case studies  (stripe.com/customers)     
→ Stripe.com — Customers page — How a world-class company does social proof — mix of logos, 
(testimonial.to)
 
→ Testimonial.to — Another testimonial widget product — great reference for modern testimonial UI  
(senja.io)
 
→ Senja.io — Testimonial collection tool — their own website shows excellent testimonial patterns  
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
keyframes translating X by -50%). Section background: light gray #F5F5F5." 
and company (12px gray). 8 cards per row duplicated for infinite loop (use CSS animation with 
gold stars), quote text in quotes, horizontal divider, avatar circle (40px, initials), name (bold 14px), role 
20px/s. Each card (280px wide, white background, 12px border-radius, subtle shadow): star rating (5 
row auto-scrolling horizontally at different speeds. Row 1 scrolls left at 30px/s, Row 2 scrolls right at 
"Create a testimonial section with a dual-row infinite marquee. Two rows of testimonial cards, each 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
the scroll. Star ratings above the quote add credibility. 
continuously from right to left, often with two rows moving in opposite directions. Clicking stops 
marquee (infinite horizontal scroll). The marquee version is very popular currently — cards scroll 
Can be laid out as: a 3-column grid of cards, a single large featured quote, or an auto-scrolling 
How it works 
the person's photo, name, job title, and company. 
revenue by 40%') rather than generic ('great product, love it'). They should include: the quote, 
----------------Page (37) Break----------------
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
Body scroll should lock when modal is open." 
'Create your account', email input, password input, primary submit button, and a 'Sign in instead' link. 
on: X button top-right, clicking overlay, pressing Escape key. Include a sign-up form inside: heading 
rgba(0,0,0,0.25). Animate in: transform:scale(0.92) opacity:0 → scale(1) opacity:1, 0.25s ease. Close 
border-radius:16px, padding:32px, max-width:480px, width:90%, box-shadow:0 25px 50px 
background:rgba(0,0,0,0.6), backdrop-filter:blur(4px), z-index:1000. Modal panel: background:white, 
"Build a modal component that opens when a button is clicked. Overlay: position:fixed, inset:0, 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
modal while it's open. 
Clicking the overlay or pressing Escape closes the modal. Focus should be trapped inside the 
with padding, shadow, and border-radius. It animates in with a scale + opacity transition. 
align-items:center, justify-content:center on the overlay. The modal panel itself is a white card 
modal panel sits centered on top of the overlay, usually achieved with display:flex, 
An overlay div covers the entire screen (position:fixed, inset:0, background:rgba(0,0,0,0.5)). The 
How it works 
modal. 
larger), video players, and onboarding flows. The background is darkened to direct focus to the 
you sure you want to delete this?'), forms (sign up, log in), image lightboxes (viewing a photo 
interact with it or dismiss it before returning to the main page. It's used for: confirmations ('Are 
A modal (or dialog) is a popup overlay that appears over the page content, requiring the user to 
What it is 
6.5 Modal / Dialog 
 
(linear.app/pricing)
 
→ Linear.app/pricing FAQ — Simple, clean FAQ implementation at the bottom of their pricing page  
examples  (headlessui.com)    
→ Headless UI (by Tailwind Labs) — Accessible accordion components with animations — code 
guidance  (university .webflow  .com)  
→ Webflow University — FAQ Templates — No-code accordion FAQ examples with styling 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
top of the FAQ that filters questions as the user types." 
question can be open at a time (opening a new one closes the previous). Add a search input at the 
to auto height in 0.3s ease. Answer text is muted gray (#6B7280), 16px, with 20px padding. Only one 
the right that rotates 45deg to × when open. Answer panel: starts height:0 overflow:hidden, transitions 
1px #E5E7EB border. Question row: padding 20px, question text in font-weight:500, and a + icon on 
"Build an FAQ section with 8 questions. Each FAQ item: full-width, white background, separated by a 
----------------Page (38) Break----------------
solid #E5E7EB, border-radius:12px, overflow:hidden, cursor:pointer. Hover state: 
"Build a blog post card grid with 3 columns. Each card: white background (#FFFFFF), border:1px 
AI PROMPT TO USE
 
 
A subtle lift + border highlight is usually enough. 
and a clear hover state. W ithout a hover state, cards feel static and users don't know they're clickable. 
4/3 on the image container, not the image itself), comfortable internal padding (20-24px is standard), 
TIP  Three things make or break a card grid: consistent image aspect ratios (use aspect-ratio:16/9 or 
 
of image 
aspect-ratio    e.g. aspect-ratio:16/9 on the image area keeps cards consistent height regardless 
overflow:hidden  Applied to the card container — clips the image to the card's border-radius 
clickable 
Hover lift      transform:translateY(-4px) + increased box-shadow on hover — signals the card is 
Content area    Padded section below the visual: title, description, meta info, CTA 
Visual area     Top section of card: image, video thumbnail, illustration, or solid color block 
 
signals interactivity. The card itself is either fully clickable or has a specific CTA link. 
often have a hover state — a subtle lift effect (translateY(-4px) with increased shadow) that 
sometimes a call-to-action (link, button). Cards are grouped in grids (2, 3, or 4 columns) and 
below with a title, description, optional metadata (date, author, tags, reading time), and 
A basic card has: a visual area at the top (image, illustration, or colored block), a content area 
How it works 
portable, self-explanatory information unit. 
unit of content. The pattern comes from physical index cards and playing cards — a bounded, 
hard dividers, and they make complex pages scannable because each card is its own focused 
building block of web UI design. They create visual separation between items without requiring 
subject — a blog post, a product, a team member, a project. Cards are the most universal 
A card is a self-contained rectangular container that groups related information about a single 
What it is 
6.6 Card Component 
 
 
(dribbble.com/tags/modal)
 
→ Dribbble — Modal Design — Visual inspiration for creative modal and dialog designs  
(flowbite.com/docs/components/modal)
 
→ Flowbite — Modal Examples — Multiple modal styles and variations with copy-paste code  
examples  (radix-ui.com/primitives/docs/components/dialog)        
→ Radix UI — Dialog — The most accessible, well-implemented modal component with animation 
----------------Page (39) Break----------------
 
→ Read.cv — Portfolio platform with beautifully crafted card-based profile and post layouts  (read.cv)  
markup and padding choices  (tailwindui.com/components/marketing/elements/cards)          
→ Tailwind UI — Card Components — Pre-built card components in multiple styles — study the 
meta  (dribbble.com)   
→ Dribbble.com — Dribbble's own project cards are a reference — hover effect, image, title, author 
EXAMPLE WEBSITES TO STUDY
 
 
tag. On mobile (under 768px): 1 column. Tablet (768-1024px): 2 columns." 
avatar 28px circle + name + date + reading time, all 13px muted). Entire card is wrapped in an <a> 
-webkit-line-clamp:2), excerpt paragraph (14px, muted gray, 3-line clamp), bottom meta row (author 
background, 11px uppercase text), H3 title (18px, font-weight:600, 2-line clamp with 
placeholder) → content area with padding:20px containing: category tag (small pill, colored 
transitions: 0.25s ease. Card structure: image container (aspect-ratio:16/9, background:#F0F0F0 as 
transform:translateY(-4px), box-shadow:0 12px 30px rgba(0,0,0,0.1), border-color:#D0D0D0. All 
----------------Page (40) Break----------------
— End of Guide — 
 
glass cards, and Clash Display font for the headline.' 
feature cards fade up on scroll (animation), using a purple-to-blue gradient background, white frosted 
Example: 'Build a glassmorphism (aesthetic) hero section with a centered layout (layout) where 
TIP  The perfect AI prompt combines: 1 aesthetic + 1 layout + 1 animation + specific colors and fonts. 
 
monochromatic 
For color      60-30-10 rule / near-black dark mode / single accent color / gradient background / 
For typography  display headline / type scale / gradient text / font pairing / tight letter-spacing 
components    feature / hero section / card grid 
For       pricing table with toggle / testimonial marquee / FAQ accordion / sticky scroll 
navigation 
For navigation   sticky frosted navbar / hamburger fullscreen / mega menu / dot navigation / tab 
smooth lenis 
For animation   scroll-triggered fade-up / parallax / sticky scroll / text reveal / horizontal scroll / 
asymmetric 
For layout     hero + feature grid / bento / masonry / fullpage scroll / sidebar+content / split 
For feel      premium / editorial / playful / corporate / warm / clean / bold / refined / futuristic 
claymorphism / Y2K 
For aesthetics   glassmorphism / neumorphism / brutalism / minimalism / dark luxury / bento grid / 
 
describe what you want with precision: 
W hen prompting any AI tool (Stitch, Framer AI, v0.dev, Bolt, or similar), use this vocabulary to 
Quick Reference: Prompting Vocabulary 
----------------Page (41) Break----------------
